app-arch/libarchive.md, before:

# app-arch/libarchive

### acl
Pass the `--enable-acl` option to the configure script. Provide an ability to store ACL permissions on files and directories that are compressed into an archive and an ability to extract them back from an archive for supported formats.

It is recommended to toggle this flag system-wide. Disabling this flag on ACL-enabled systems will lead to ACL permissions being lost after an archiving or unarchaving operations.

### blake2
Pass the `--with-libb2` option to the configure script. Use the external (system) `libb2` library (instead of an embedded implementation) to enable support for the BLAKE2 checksum algorithm for RAR archives that was introduced in the RAR v5.

This flag can be safely disabled if there is no need to deal with RAR archives of the newer format.

### bzip2
Pass the `--with-bz2lib` option to the configure script. Enable support for compressing and decompressing archives in BZip2 format.

This flag can be safely disabled.

### e2fsprogs
Export the `ac_cv_header_ext2fs_ext2_fs_h=yes` (`no` when disabled) variable for the configure script. See [Gentoo Bug 354923](https://bugs.gentoo.org/354923) for details. `libarchive`'s configure script looks for `ext2fs/ext2_fs.h` in order to use some defines for file attributes support (if headears are present), but doesn't link to any additional libraries.

This flag can be disabled to avoid dependency on `e2fsprogs`.

### expat
Pass the `--with-expat` option to the configure script. When disabled, pass `--with-xml2` option instead. An XML library is used by expat for XAR archives (eXtensible ARchive format) compression and decompression.

This flag can be safely disabled.

### iconv
Pass the `--with-iconv` option to the configure script. Enable a character set conversion support between filenames in an archive and a filesystem.

It is recommended to enable this flag. Disabling it might lead to corrupted filenames to be extracted from archives created using a different character set.

### lz4
Pass the `--with-lz4` option to the configure script. Provide an ability to compress and decompress archives in LZ4 format using a `liblz4` library.

It is safe to disable this flag.

### lzma
Pass the `--with-lzma` option to the configure script. Provide an ability to compress and decompress archives in XZ format using a `liblzma` library.

This flag can be safely disabled.

### lzo
Pass the `--with-lzo2` option to the configure script. Provide an ability to compress and decompress archives in LZO format using liblzo2.

It is safe to disable the flag.

### nettle
Pass the `--with-nettle` option to the configure script. Use a `libnettle` instead of a `libcrypto` to handle encrypted archives of supported formats, e.g. RAR, 7-Zip, ZIP.

This flag can be safely disabled.

### static-libs
Pass the `--enable-static` option to the configure script. Build and install statically linked version of a `libarchive` library.

The flag should normally be disabled unless there is an explicit need to use static library, e.g. for development purposes.

### xattr
Pass the `--enable-xattr` option to the configure script. Provide an ability to store and subsequently restore extended file attributes while creating and extracting archives for supported formats.

It is recommended to toggle this flag system-wide. Disabling this flag when it is enabled for other packages might and will result in losing XATTRs while handling archives.

### zstd
Pass the `--with-zstd` option to the conpigure script. Enable support for the zstandard lossless compression algorithm, both when creating and extracting archives.

It is safe to disable the flag.

Commit message:

app-arch/libarchive +verify-sig

app-arch/libarchive.md, after:

# app-arch/libarchive

### acl
Pass the `--enable-acl` option to the configure script. Provide an ability to store ACL permissions on files and directories that are compressed into an archive and an ability to extract them back from an archive for supported formats.

It is recommended to toggle this flag system-wide. Disabling this flag on ACL-enabled systems will lead to ACL permissions being lost after an archiving or unarchaving operations.

### blake2
Pass the `--with-libb2` option to the configure script. Use the external (system) `libb2` library (instead of an embedded implementation) to enable support for the BLAKE2 checksum algorithm for RAR archives that was introduced in the RAR v5.

This flag can be safely disabled if there is no need to deal with RAR archives of the newer format.

### bzip2
Pass the `--with-bz2lib` option to the configure script. Enable support for compressing and decompressing archives in BZip2 format.

This flag can be safely disabled.

### e2fsprogs
Export the `ac_cv_header_ext2fs_ext2_fs_h=yes` (`no` when disabled) variable for the configure script. See [Gentoo Bug 354923](https://bugs.gentoo.org/354923) for details. `libarchive`'s configure script looks for `ext2fs/ext2_fs.h` in order to use some defines for file attributes support (if headears are present), but doesn't link to any additional libraries.

This flag can be disabled to avoid dependency on `e2fsprogs`.

### expat
Pass the `--with-expat` option to the configure script. When disabled, pass `--with-xml2` option instead. An XML library is used by expat for XAR archives (eXtensible ARchive format) compression and decompression.

This flag can be safely disabled.

### iconv
Pass the `--with-iconv` option to the configure script. Enable a character set conversion support between filenames in an archive and a filesystem.

It is recommended to enable this flag. Disabling it might lead to corrupted filenames to be extracted from archives created using a different character set.

### lz4
Pass the `--with-lz4` option to the configure script. Provide an ability to compress and decompress archives in LZ4 format using a `liblz4` library.

It is safe to disable this flag.

### lzma
Pass the `--with-lzma` option to the configure script. Provide an ability to compress and decompress archives in XZ format using a `liblzma` library.

This flag can be safely disabled.

### lzo
Pass the `--with-lzo2` option to the configure script. Provide an ability to compress and decompress archives in LZO format using liblzo2.

It is safe to disable the flag.

### nettle
Pass the `--with-nettle` option to the configure script. Use a `libnettle` instead of a `libcrypto` to handle encrypted archives of supported formats, e.g. RAR, 7-Zip, ZIP.

This flag can be safely disabled.

### static-libs
Pass the `--enable-static` option to the configure script. Build and install statically linked version of a `libarchive` library.

The flag should normally be disabled unless there is an explicit need to use static library, e.g. for development purposes.

### verify-sig
Perform signature verification of the upstream source code archive before extracting it and building the package.

It is safe to disable this flag.

### xattr
Pass the `--enable-xattr` option to the configure script. Provide an ability to store and subsequently restore extended file attributes while creating and extracting archives for supported formats.

It is recommended to toggle this flag system-wide. Disabling this flag when it is enabled for other packages might and will result in losing XATTRs while handling archives.

### zstd
Pass the `--with-zstd` option to the conpigure script. Enable support for the zstandard lossless compression algorithm, both when creating and extracting archives.

It is safe to disable the flag.
