app-text/poppler.md, before:

# app-text/poppler

### boost
Only make sense when the `qt5` flag is enabled. Pass the `-DENABLE_BOOST=true` (`false` if the flag is disabled) option to the `cmake` command. Use the boost C++ libraries to improve performance when using the QT5 Slash backend for rendering.

This flag should only be enabled if there is a need to use Splash backend.

### cairo
Pass the `-DWITH_Cairo=true` (`false` when disabled) option to the `cmake` command. Build and install the Cairo Poppler backend that uses the `libcairo` library to render PDF output onto the Cairo surface that subsequently can be used for displaying on the screen, saving into the rasterized or vectorized image file, etc.

It is safe to disable the flag.

### cjk
Pull in the (app-text/poppler-data)[../app-text/poppler-data.md] package as a dependency that provides Poppler encoding data - CMap tables required to display PDF documents containing CJK (Chinese, Japanese, Korean) characters.

This flag should be enabled to support asian scripts.

### curl
Pass the `-DENABLE_LIBCURL=true` (`false` if disabled) option to the `cmake` command. Link against the `libcurl` library to provide an ability to fetch and open PDF documents over the HTTP and HTTPS protocols.

It is safe to disable the flag.

### cxx
Pass the `-DENABLE_CPP=true` (`false` when disabled) option to the `cmake` command. Build and install the `libpoppler-cpp` library providing the Poppler CPP frontend that has no additional requirements, unlike other frontends, and can be used in any pure C++ application.

This flag should be enabled if there is a need to use the library with C++ applications.

### debug
This flag does nothing.

### doc
This flag only makes sense if the `cairo` flag is enabled. Install additional documentation for Glib Poppler frontend into the `/usr/share/gtk-doc/html/poppler` directory. Documentation is generated by the GTK-Doc tool and is provided in the HTML format.

It is safe to disable the flag.

### introspection
Pass the `-DWITH_GObjectIntrospection=true` (`false` if disabled) option to the `cmake` command. Generate and install the `Poppler-0.18.gir` GIR metadata file to provide dynamic bindings for the `libpoppler-glib` (Glib Poppler frontend) library to languages other than C using the GObject Introspection framework.

The flag can be safely disabled.

### jpeg
Pass the `-DWITH_JPEG=yes` (`no` when disabled) and `-DENABLE_DCTDECODER=libjpeg` (`none` if disabled) options to the `cmake` command. Use the `libjpeg` library to provide an ability to write images in the JPEG (Joint Photographic Experts Group) format, e.g. when converting entire PDF into a set of images, extracting pages or images out of PDF, both with poppler tools and through the `libppopler` library itself. Note, that embedded JPEG images can be extracted as they are without a help of the `libjpeg` library. Also, use the `libjpeg` library for handling DCT (Discrete Cosine Transform) compression algorithm for JPEG images.

It is recommended to enable this flag to support JPEG DCT compression for embedded images.

### jpeg2k
Pass the `-DENABLE_LIBOPENJPEG=openjpeg2` (`none` if disabled) option to the `cmake` command. Use the `libopenjp2` library to properly handle JPX streams that are defined by the JPEG2000 part-2 extension (aka ISO/IEC 15444-2) and provide additional flexibility in color space specification, opacity information, and metadata. If disabled, PDFs with JPX images won't be rendered.

This flag should be enabled to properly handle JPX streams embedded into PDF files.

### lcms
Pass the `-DENABLE_CMS=lcms2` (`none` when disabled) option to the `cmake` command. Use the `liblcms2` library to provide color management capabilities, e.g. applying a color profile when rendering or converting a PDF into PostScript or other image formats.

This flag should be enabled to properly handle color profiles.

### nss
Pass the `-DWITH_NSS3=true` (`false` if disabled) option to the `cmake` command. Link against the `libnss3` library to enable support for reading and verifying digital signatures in PDF files.

This flag should be enabled if there is a need to handle digitally signed PDFs.

### png
Pass the `-DWITH_PNG=true` (`false` when disabled) option to the `cmake` command. Use the `libpng` library to provide an ability to write images in the PNG (Portable Network Graphics) format, e.g. when converting entire PDF into a set of images, extracting pages or images out of PDF, both with poppler tools and through the `libppopler` library itself.

This flag should be enabled if there is a need to produce PNG output images.

### qt5
Pass the `-DCMAKE_DISABLE_FIND_PACKAGE_Qt5Core=OFF` (`ON` when disabled) option to the `cmake` command. Build and install the `poppler-qt5` library that provides the Qt5 frontend, that allows Qt5 programmers to easily load and render PDF files and abstract away Poppler internals. Also provide the Qt5 specific rendering backend - Arthur.

This flag should be enabled for using Poppler with Qt5 applications.

### tiff
Pass the `-DWITH_TIFF=true` (`false` if disabled) option to the `cmake` command. Use the `libtiff` library to provide an ability to write images in the TIFF (Tagged Image File Format) format, e.g. when converting entire PDF into a set of images, extracting pages or images out of PDF, both with poppler tools and through the `libppopler` library itself.

This flag should be enabled if there is a need to produce TIFF output images.

### utils
Pass the `-DENABLE_UTILS=true` (`false` when disabled) option to the `cmake` command. Build and install the following tools:

- pdffonts - lists fonts used in a PDF file along with various information for each font;
- pdftoppm - converts PDF files to color image files in PPM format, grayscale image files in PGM format, or monochrome image files in PBM format, writes one PPM file for each page using the Splash output backend;
- pdfdetach - lists or extracts embedded files (attachments) from a PDF file;
- pdftohtml - converts PDF files into html, xml and png images;
- pdftocairo (installed only if `cairo` flag is enabled) - Converts PDF documents to PNG/JPEG/TIFF/PDF/PS/EPS/SVG formats using cairo backend;
- pdftotext - converts PDF files to plain text;
- pdfimages - saves images from a PDF file as PPM/PBM/PNG/TIFF/JPEG/JPEG2000/JBIG2 images, one file per image;
- pdftops - converts PDF files to PostScript so they can be printed;
- pdfinfo - prints the contents of the `Info` dictionary from a PDF file, i.e. `title`, `subject`, `keywords`, `author`, `creator`, `producer`, `creation date`, `modification date`;
- pdfseparate - extracts single pages from a Portable Document Format (PDF);
- pdfunite - merges several PDF files in order of their occurrence on command line to one resulting PDF file;
- pdfsig (installed only if `nss` flag is enabled) - verifies  the digital signatures in a PDF document;

This flag can be safely disabled if none of the above tools are necessary.

Commit message:

app-text/poppler +verify-sig

app-text/poppler.md, after:

# app-text/poppler

### boost
Only make sense when the `qt5` flag is enabled. Pass the `-DENABLE_BOOST=true` (`false` if the flag is disabled) option to the `cmake` command. Use the boost C++ libraries to improve performance when using the QT5 Slash backend for rendering.

This flag should only be enabled if there is a need to use Splash backend.

### cairo
Pass the `-DWITH_Cairo=true` (`false` when disabled) option to the `cmake` command. Build and install the Cairo Poppler backend that uses the `libcairo` library to render PDF output onto the Cairo surface that subsequently can be used for displaying on the screen, saving into the rasterized or vectorized image file, etc.

It is safe to disable the flag.

### cjk
Pull in the (app-text/poppler-data)[../app-text/poppler-data.md] package as a dependency that provides Poppler encoding data - CMap tables required to display PDF documents containing CJK (Chinese, Japanese, Korean) characters.

This flag should be enabled to support asian scripts.

### curl
Pass the `-DENABLE_LIBCURL=true` (`false` if disabled) option to the `cmake` command. Link against the `libcurl` library to provide an ability to fetch and open PDF documents over the HTTP and HTTPS protocols.

It is safe to disable the flag.

### cxx
Pass the `-DENABLE_CPP=true` (`false` when disabled) option to the `cmake` command. Build and install the `libpoppler-cpp` library providing the Poppler CPP frontend that has no additional requirements, unlike other frontends, and can be used in any pure C++ application.

This flag should be enabled if there is a need to use the library with C++ applications.

### debug
This flag does nothing.

### doc
This flag only makes sense if the `cairo` flag is enabled. Install additional documentation for Glib Poppler frontend into the `/usr/share/gtk-doc/html/poppler` directory. Documentation is generated by the GTK-Doc tool and is provided in the HTML format.

It is safe to disable the flag.

### introspection
Pass the `-DWITH_GObjectIntrospection=true` (`false` if disabled) option to the `cmake` command. Generate and install the `Poppler-0.18.gir` GIR metadata file to provide dynamic bindings for the `libpoppler-glib` (Glib Poppler frontend) library to languages other than C using the GObject Introspection framework.

The flag can be safely disabled.

### jpeg
Pass the `-DWITH_JPEG=yes` (`no` when disabled) and `-DENABLE_DCTDECODER=libjpeg` (`none` if disabled) options to the `cmake` command. Use the `libjpeg` library to provide an ability to write images in the JPEG (Joint Photographic Experts Group) format, e.g. when converting entire PDF into a set of images, extracting pages or images out of PDF, both with poppler tools and through the `libppopler` library itself. Note, that embedded JPEG images can be extracted as they are without a help of the `libjpeg` library. Also, use the `libjpeg` library for handling DCT (Discrete Cosine Transform) compression algorithm for JPEG images.

It is recommended to enable this flag to support JPEG DCT compression for embedded images.

### jpeg2k
Pass the `-DENABLE_LIBOPENJPEG=openjpeg2` (`none` if disabled) option to the `cmake` command. Use the `libopenjp2` library to properly handle JPX streams that are defined by the JPEG2000 part-2 extension (aka ISO/IEC 15444-2) and provide additional flexibility in color space specification, opacity information, and metadata. If disabled, PDFs with JPX images won't be rendered.

This flag should be enabled to properly handle JPX streams embedded into PDF files.

### lcms
Pass the `-DENABLE_CMS=lcms2` (`none` when disabled) option to the `cmake` command. Use the `liblcms2` library to provide color management capabilities, e.g. applying a color profile when rendering or converting a PDF into PostScript or other image formats.

This flag should be enabled to properly handle color profiles.

### nss
Pass the `-DWITH_NSS3=true` (`false` if disabled) option to the `cmake` command. Link against the `libnss3` library to enable support for reading and verifying digital signatures in PDF files.

This flag should be enabled if there is a need to handle digitally signed PDFs.

### png
Pass the `-DWITH_PNG=true` (`false` when disabled) option to the `cmake` command. Use the `libpng` library to provide an ability to write images in the PNG (Portable Network Graphics) format, e.g. when converting entire PDF into a set of images, extracting pages or images out of PDF, both with poppler tools and through the `libppopler` library itself.

This flag should be enabled if there is a need to produce PNG output images.

### qt5
Pass the `-DCMAKE_DISABLE_FIND_PACKAGE_Qt5Core=OFF` (`ON` when disabled) option to the `cmake` command. Build and install the `poppler-qt5` library that provides the Qt5 frontend, that allows Qt5 programmers to easily load and render PDF files and abstract away Poppler internals. Also provide the Qt5 specific rendering backend - Arthur.

This flag should be enabled for using Poppler with Qt5 applications.

### tiff
Pass the `-DWITH_TIFF=true` (`false` if disabled) option to the `cmake` command. Use the `libtiff` library to provide an ability to write images in the TIFF (Tagged Image File Format) format, e.g. when converting entire PDF into a set of images, extracting pages or images out of PDF, both with poppler tools and through the `libppopler` library itself.

This flag should be enabled if there is a need to produce TIFF output images.

### verify-sig
Perform signature verification of the upstream source code archive before extracting it and building the package.

It is safe to disable this flag.

### utils
Pass the `-DENABLE_UTILS=true` (`false` when disabled) option to the `cmake` command. Build and install the following tools:

- pdffonts - lists fonts used in a PDF file along with various information for each font;
- pdftoppm - converts PDF files to color image files in PPM format, grayscale image files in PGM format, or monochrome image files in PBM format, writes one PPM file for each page using the Splash output backend;
- pdfdetach - lists or extracts embedded files (attachments) from a PDF file;
- pdftohtml - converts PDF files into html, xml and png images;
- pdftocairo (installed only if `cairo` flag is enabled) - Converts PDF documents to PNG/JPEG/TIFF/PDF/PS/EPS/SVG formats using cairo backend;
- pdftotext - converts PDF files to plain text;
- pdfimages - saves images from a PDF file as PPM/PBM/PNG/TIFF/JPEG/JPEG2000/JBIG2 images, one file per image;
- pdftops - converts PDF files to PostScript so they can be printed;
- pdfinfo - prints the contents of the `Info` dictionary from a PDF file, i.e. `title`, `subject`, `keywords`, `author`, `creator`, `producer`, `creation date`, `modification date`;
- pdfseparate - extracts single pages from a Portable Document Format (PDF);
- pdfunite - merges several PDF files in order of their occurrence on command line to one resulting PDF file;
- pdfsig (installed only if `nss` flag is enabled) - verifies  the digital signatures in a PDF document;

This flag can be safely disabled if none of the above tools are necessary.
