dev-libs/libxslt.md, before:

# dev-libs/libxslt

### crypt
Pass the `--with-crypto` option to the configure script. Enable a Cryptographical EXSLT (Extensions for XSLT) support for XML documents.

It is safe to disable this flag as EXSLT crypto is extremely rare.

### debug
Pass two options to the configure script:
- the `--with-debug` option that is enabling output of debugging information during XSLT processing
- the `--with-mem-debug` option that is responsible for replacing a memory allocator with one that collects memory usage debugging data

This option should be disabled, unless there is a need for debugging.

### examples
Install Python code examples how to use `libxslt` into a `/usr/share/doc/libxslt-<VERSION>/python/examples` directory. Only does so if a `python` flag is enabled too.

It is safe to disable the flag.

### python
For each enabled Python target run configure script with the `--with-python` option followed by `make`. Build and install Python bindings (`libxslt` module) for each individual version of the Python interpreter.

This flag can be safely disabled.

### static-libs
Pass the `--enable-static` option to the configure script. Build and install statically linked libraries.

The flag can safely be disabled unless there is an explicit need for statically linked libraries, e.g. for development purposes.

Commit message:

dev-libs/libxslt ~debug ~static-libs

dev-libs/libxslt.md, after:

# dev-libs/libxslt

### crypt
Pass the `--with-crypto` option to the configure script. Enable a Cryptographical EXSLT (Extensions for XSLT) support for XML documents.

It is safe to disable this flag as EXSLT crypto is extremely rare.

### debug
Pass the following two options to the configure script:
- the `--with-debug` option that is enabling output of debugging information during XSLT processing;
- the `--with-mem-debug` option that is responsible for replacing a memory allocator with one that collects memory usage debugging data.

This flag should normally be disabled, unless there is a need for debugging.

### examples
Install Python code examples how to use `libxslt` into a `/usr/share/doc/libxslt-<VERSION>/python/examples` directory. Only does so if a `python` flag is enabled too.

It is safe to disable the flag.

### python
For each enabled Python target run configure script with the `--with-python` option followed by `make`. Build and install Python bindings (`libxslt` module) for each individual version of the Python interpreter.

This flag can be safely disabled.

### static-libs
Pass the `--enable-static` option to the configure script. Build and install a statically linked version of the `libxslt` library.

The flag can safely be disabled unless there is an explicit need for statically linked libraries, e.g. for development purposes.
