net-libs/libsoup.md, before:

# net-libs/libsoup

### gssapi
Pass the `-Dgssapi=true` (`false` if the flag is disabled) option to the meson build script. Use the `libkrb5` to provides support for the Kerberos (GSS-API - Generic Security Services API) HTTP Authentication.

This flag should only be enabled if there is a need to use Kerberos HTTP authentication via the library.

### gtk-doc
Pass the `-Dgtk_doc=true` option to the meson build script. Use the Gtk-Doc tool to generate an API reference documentation in the HTML format and install it into the `/usr/share/gtk-doc` directory.

It is safe to disable this flag if there is no need for developer documentation.

### introspection
Pass the `-Dintrospection=true` (`false` when this flag is disabled) option to the meson build script. Generate the `Soup-2.4.gir` GIR metadata file to provide dynamic bindings for the `libsoup` library to languages other than C.

It is safe to disable the flag.

### samba
Pass the `-Dntlm=true` option to the meson build script. Use a Samba's `winbind` daemon helper - the `ntlm_auth` tool to provide support for NTLM (NT LAN Manager) single-sign-on authentication.

This flag should be enabled if there is a need to use apps that utilise the `libsoup` library as a client for the NTLM authentication.

### ssl
Ensure that the `ssl` flag is set on the [net-libs/glib-networking](../net-libs/glib-networking.md) package. Provide support for HTTPS (HTTP over TLS) connections via the `gnutls` library.

This flag should be enabled if there are apps that use the `libsoup` library to connect or serve connections over an HTTPS protocol.

### test
Execute the `meson test` command when the main build is completed to run a test suite provided with the source code. This will extend the build time. When disabled, patch the `Makefile.in` and `Makefile.am` files to skip building the test related code.

This flag should normally be disabled as it is primarily used by the Gentoo team, testers or developers.

### vala
Prepare environment for the configure script to find an appropriate version of vala files. Pass the `-Dvapi=true` option to the configure script. Generate `Soup-2.4-custom.vala` Vala language bindings for the `libsoup` library.

It is safe to disable the flag.

Commit message:

net-libs/libsoup +brotli ~gssapi ~gtk-doc ~introspection ~samba ~vala

net-libs/libsoup.md, after:

# net-libs/libsoup

### brotli
Pass the `-Dbrotli=enabled` (`disabled` when the flag is disabled) option to the meson build script. Enable support for Google's Brotli generic-purpose lossless compression algorithm and advertise such support by sending an appropriate `Accept-Encoding` header to the server.

It is safe to disable this flag if Brotli encoding support is not required.

### gssapi
Pass the `-Dgssapi=enabled` (`disabled` if the flag is disabled) option to the meson build script. Use the `libkrb5` to provides support for the Kerberos (GSS-API - Generic Security Services API) HTTP Authentication.

This flag should only be enabled if there is a need to use Kerberos HTTP authentication via the library.

### gtk-doc
Pass the `-Dgtk_doc=true` (`false` if the flag is disabled) option to the meson build script. Use the Gtk-Doc tool to generate an API reference documentation in the HTML format and install it into the `/usr/share/gtk-doc` directory.

It is safe to disable this flag if there is no need for developer documentation.

### introspection
Pass the `-Dintrospection=enabled` (`disabled` when this flag is disabled) option to the meson build script. Generate the `Soup-2.4.gir` GIR metadata file to provide dynamic bindings for the `libsoup` library to languages other than C.

It is safe to disable the flag.

### samba
Pass the `-Dntlm=enabled` (`disabled` if the flag is disabled) option to the meson build script. Use a Samba's `winbind` daemon helper - the `ntlm_auth` tool to provide support for NTLM (NT LAN Manager) single-sign-on authentication.

This flag should be enabled if there is a need to use apps that utilise the `libsoup` library as a client for the NTLM authentication.

### ssl
Ensure that the `ssl` flag is set on the [net-libs/glib-networking](../net-libs/glib-networking.md) package. Provide support for HTTPS (HTTP over TLS) connections via the `gnutls` library.

This flag should be enabled if there are apps that use the `libsoup` library to connect or serve connections over an HTTPS protocol.

### test
Execute the `meson test` command when the main build is completed to run a test suite provided with the source code. This will extend the build time. When disabled, patch the `Makefile.in` and `Makefile.am` files to skip building the test related code.

This flag should normally be disabled as it is primarily used by the Gentoo team, testers or developers.

### vala
Prepare environment for the configure script to find an appropriate version of vala files. Pass the `-Dvapi=enabled` (`disabled` when the flag is disabled) option to the configure script. Generate `Soup-2.4-custom.vala` Vala language bindings for the `libsoup` library.

It is safe to disable the flag.
