media-libs/mesa.md, before:

# media-libs/mesa

### classic
Append the `swrast` value (and other values based on selected video cards, e.g. `i915`, `i965`, `r100`, `r200`, etc) to the `-Ddri-drivers=` option passed to the meson build command. Build and install the `swrast_dri.so` library (and other `*_dri.so` libraries based on selected video cards) - the legacy/original Mesa software rasterizer and other DRI drivers that are selected via the `VIDEO_CARDS` variable.

This flag should only be enabled as a dependency of one or more video card drivers, as `gallium` is almost always is a better choice.

### d3d9
Only works if the `gallium` flag is enabled and one of the `r300`, `r600`, `radeonsi`, `nouveau` or `vmware` video cards are enabled. Pass the `-Dgallium-nine=true` option to the meson build command. Build the `libd3dadapter9.so` library that provides Direct3D 9.x state tracker. Nine implements the full IDirect3DDevice9 COM interface and a custom COM interface called ID3DAdapter9 which is used to implement a final IDirect3D9Ex COM interface.

This flag should be enabled to run applications that use Direct3D9 API, e.g. via Wine.

### debug
If the `llvm` flag is enabled, ensure that [sys-devel/llvm](../sys-devel/llvm.md) is built with the `debug` flag too (warning will be issued if it is not). Pass the `--buildtype debug` (`plain` if disabled) and `-Db_ndebug=false` (`true` when disabled) options to the meson command. Enable assertions in the meson scripts. Use debug compiler flags (usually `-g` option), disable optimizations (usually `-O0` option) and define the special debugging macro `-DDEBUG`. Compile libraries and binaries with debugging symbols. Enable additional runtime assertions and print extra debugging messages during execution.

This flag should only be enabled if there is a need to debug the Mesa libraries/drivers or applications linked against them.

### dri3
Pass the `-Ddri3=true` option to the meson build command. Enable support for the DRI3 (Direct Rendering Infrastructure 3) extension that utilizes the DMA-BUF (Direct Memory Access Buffer Sharing API) feature to pass buffer objects between X Server and DRI client using file descriptors over the old and insecure GEM (Graphics Execution Manager) buffer sharing mechanism.

This flag should be enabled if target systems runs the X Server.

### egl
Pass the `-Degl=true` option to the meson build script. Build and install the `libEGL` library that provides the EGL API entry points and helper functions for use by the drivers. EGL API handles graphics context management, surface/buffer binding, and rendering synchronization and enables high-performance, accelerated, mixed-mode 2D and 3D rendering for the Embedded-System Graphics. This feature is formerly known as Eagle.

This flag should be enabled on embedded systems that support Khronos rendering APIs, such as OpenGL ES or OpenVG.

### gallium
Pass the `-Dgallium-drivers=swrast` option (and others depending on the video cards selection, e.g. `i915`, `vc4`, `r600`, `radeonsi`, etc) to the meson build command. Enable Gallium3D - a new architecture for building 3D graphics drivers that is designed to allow portability to all major operating systems and graphics interfaces. Build Gallium based `swrast_dri.so` library and other supported driver libraries (`*_dri.so`) enabled via the `VIDEO_CARDS` variable and install them into the `/usr/lib/dri` directory.

This flag should only be enabled as a dependency of one or more video card drivers and other Mesa features or if there is an explicit need for the `Gallium3D` backend, e.g. for software rendering using LLVM without hardware acceleration.

### gbm
Append the `drm` value to the `-Dplatforms=` option and pass it together with the `-Dgbm=true` option to the meson build command. Build and install a `libgbm.so` library that provides a graphics buffer manager (aka GBM) - an abstraction of the graphics driver specific buffer management APIs (for instance the various `libdrm_*` libraries), implemented internally by calling into the Mesa GPU drivers.

This flag should only be enabled as a dependency of the graphics driver, or if the target system runs the Wayland display server.

### gles1
Pass the `-Dgles1=true` option to the meson build command. Build and install the `libGLESv1_CM` library that provides support for the OpenGL ES 1.1 API - a royalty-free, cross-platform API for rendering advanced 2D and 3D graphics on embedded and mobile systems - including consoles, phones, appliances and vehicles. OpenGL ES depends on a working EGL implementation.

This flag should be enabled on the embedded systems that support OpenGL ES 1.1 API.

### gles2
Pass the `-Dgles2=true` option to the meson build command. Build and install the `libGLESv2` library that provides support for the OpenGL ES 2.0 API - a royalty-free, cross-platform API for rendering advanced 2D and 3D graphics on embedded and mobile systems - including consoles, phones, appliances and vehicles. OpenGL ES depends on a working EGL implementation.

This flag should be enabled on the embedded systems that support OpenGL ES 2.0 API.

### libglvnd
Pass the `-Dglvnd=true` option to the meson build command. Use the `libgvnd` library - an OpenGL Neutral Dispatch Library led by NVIDIA, to replace the internal Mesa dispatcher implementation.

This flag should be disabled for now as the feature is in an experimental state.

### llvm
This flag only works if the `gallium` flag is enabled. Prepare build environment by detecting a latest installed version of the LLVM package and appending it to the `PATH` variable. Pass the `-Dllvm=true` option to the meson build command. Build and install the Gallium llvmpipe driver - a software rasterizer that uses LLVM to do runtime code generation. Shaders, point/line/triangle rasterization and vertex processing are implemented with LLVM IR which is translated to x86, x86-64, or ppc64le machine code. Also, the driver is multithreaded to take advantage of multiple CPU cores (up to 8 at this time). It's the fastest software rasterizer for Mesa.

This flag should only be enabled as a dependency of a Gallium3D driver or when software rendering without hardware acceleration is necessary.

### lm-sensors
Only works when the `gallium` flag is enabled. Passe the `-Dlmsensors=true` option to the meson build script. Use the `libsensors` library to provide an ability to display temperature, fan speed and other information from the lm_sensors in the Gallium HUD (head-up display).

It is safe to disable the flag.

### opencl
This feature only works with the `r600` and `radeonsi` Gallium3D drivers and requires the `gallium` and the `llvm` flags to be enabled. Pass the `-Dgallium-opencl=icd` (`disabled` if the flag is off) option to the meson build command. Build and install the `libOpenCL.so` library into the `/usr/lib/OpenCL/vendors/mesa` directory to provide support for the OpenCL 1.1 API - the open, royalty-free standard for cross-platform, parallel programming of diverse processors found in personal computers, servers, mobile devices and embedded platforms.

This flag should only be enabled if there is a need to use the OpenCL API and the target system has supported AMD card.

### osmesa
Pass the `-Dosmesa=classic` (or `gallium` if the `gallium` flag is enabled) option to the meson build command. Build and install the `libOSMesa` library - an off-screen interface for rendering into user-allocated memory without any sort of window system or operating system dependencies, meaning the GL_FRONT colorbuffer is actually a buffer in main memory, rather than a window on your display.

It is safe to disable this flag.

### pax_kernel
Pass the `-Dglx-read-only-text=true` option to the meson build command. Disable writable `.text` section on `x86` platform necessary for running mesa under the PaX hardened Kernel. For details see [Gentoo Bug #240956](https://bugs.gentoo.org/240956).

This flag must only be enabled on hardened systems.

### pic
Pass the `-Dasm=false` option to the meson build command. Disable Assembly code that is used for performance optimization on `x86` platform in order to build PIC (position independent code) libraries (however, `-fPIC` compiler flag must be set in order to do so).

This flag should be enabled on hardened systems or if there is an explicit need for the PIC libraries.

### selinux
Pass the `-Dselinux=true` option to the meson build command. Use the `libselinux` library to check if the SELinux restricts executable code in the heap memory and avoids using it for executable section allocation if it is restricted. This is necessary when running under the SELinux-restricted kernel.

This flag should only ever be toggled system-wide, i.e. as part of the SELinux enabled Portage profile.

### test
Pass the `-Dbuild-tests=true` option to the meson build command. Execute the `ninja test` command when the main build is completed to run the test suite provided with the source code. This will extend the build time.

This flag should normally be disabled, as it is mainly used by the Gentoo team, testers and developers.

### unwind
Only works if the `gallium` flag is enabled. Pass the `-Dlibunwind=true` option to the meson build command. Use the `libunwind` library to generate backtraces for debugging messages.

This flag should normally be disabled and is only useful for debugging purposes.

### vaapi
This feature only works with one of the `r600`, `radeonsi` and `nouveau` Gallium3D driver and therefore requires the `gallium` flag to be enabled. Pass the `-Dgallium-va=true` and the `-Dva-libs-path=/usr/lib/va/drivers` options to the meson build command. Enable support for the VA API (Video-Acceleration API) via the `libva` library to gain an access to graphics hardware acceleration capabilities for video processing. Support accelerated encoding and decoding of the MPEG2, VC-1, H.264/AVC, etc. video codecs.

It is recommended to enable this flag if there is a need to deal with encoding and decoding video files using a compatible GPU, e.g. AMD.

### valgrind
Pass the `-Dvalgrind=auto` option to the meson build command. Build mesa with Valgrind support. Enable some sanitization and additional code to suppress false positive reports from Valgrind in various memory management routines and Kernel calls. This has a performance impact.

This flag should only be enabled if there is a need to run Valgrind tool on the application linked against mesa libraries.

### vdpau
This feature only works for one of the `r300`, `r600`, `radeonsi` and `nouveau` Gallium3D driver and therefore requires the `gallium` flag to be enabled. Pass the `-Dgallium-vdpau=true` option to the meson build command. Enable support for VDPAU (Video Decode and Presentation API) via the `libvdpau` library to access video decoding acceleration and presentation hardware present in modern GPUs. Support accelerated encoding and decoding of the MPEG-1, MPEG-2, MPEG-4 part 2, H.264, VC-1 and DivX video codecs.

It is recommended to enable this flag if there is a need to deal with video files encoding and decoding using a compatible GPU, e.g. Nvidia with Nouveau driver.

### vulkan
Pass the `-Dvulkan-drivers=` option with a list of supported drivers enabled via `VIDEO_CARDS` to the configure script. Build and install drivers that utilize Vulkan API - a new generation graphics and compute API that provides high-efficiency, cross-platform access to modern GPUs used in a wide variety of devices. Currently only modern AMD and Intel GPUs are supported.

It is highly recommended to enable this flag if the target system has the AMD or Intel GPU.

### wayland
The Wayland server requires the EGL implementation and GBM support to work. Append the `wayland` value to the `-Dplatforms=` option and pass it to the meson build command. Provide an implementation of the EGL API for Wayland clients to draw directly to the framebuffer.

This flag should only be enabled if there is a need to run Wayland server on the target system.

### xa
This feature only works for the `freedreno`, `nouveau` and `vmware` Gallium3D drivers and therefor requires the `gallium` flag to be enabled. Pass the `-Dgallium-xa=true` option to the meson build script. Build and install the XA (X.Org Acceleration) state tracker developed by VMWare. It provides versioning support, surface functionality, and YUV blits for textured X-Video, Solid fills without ROP functionality, Copies with format conversion and reinterpretation but without ROP, Xrender-type compositing for general acceleration. It is primarily designed for use by the `vmwgfx` on VMware-virtualized guest operating systems. The Freedreno driver uses XA for accelerating 2D with open-source, reverse-engineered Qualcomm graphics driver.

This flag should only be enabled if the target system runs inside of VMWare machine or runs on Adreno GPU with Freedreno driver.

### xvmc
The feature only works with the `r600` or `nouveau` Gallium3D driver and requires `gallium` flag to be enabled. Pass the `-Dgallium-xvmc=true` option to the configure script. Enable the XvMC (X-Video Motion Compensation) API support - an X.Org Server extension that allows video programs to offload portions of the video decoding process to the GPU video-hardware. It is old and outdated extension that is currently obsolete by VA-API and VDPAU and is disabled by default in Mesa.

This flag should normally be disabled and VA-API or VDPAU should be used instead. However it can be used for old hardware that has no such capabilities.

Commit message:

media-libs/mesa ~vulkan +vulkan-overlay

media-libs/mesa.md, after:

# media-libs/mesa

### classic
Append the `swrast` value (and other values based on selected video cards, e.g. `i915`, `i965`, `r100`, `r200`, etc) to the `-Ddri-drivers=` option passed to the meson build command. Build and install the `swrast_dri.so` library (and other `*_dri.so` libraries based on selected video cards) - the legacy/original Mesa software rasterizer and other DRI drivers that are selected via the `VIDEO_CARDS` variable.

This flag should only be enabled as a dependency of one or more video card drivers, as `gallium` is almost always is a better choice.

### d3d9
Only works if the `gallium` flag is enabled and one of the `r300`, `r600`, `radeonsi`, `nouveau` or `vmware` video cards are enabled. Pass the `-Dgallium-nine=true` option to the meson build command. Build the `libd3dadapter9.so` library that provides Direct3D 9.x state tracker. Nine implements the full IDirect3DDevice9 COM interface and a custom COM interface called ID3DAdapter9 which is used to implement a final IDirect3D9Ex COM interface.

This flag should be enabled to run applications that use Direct3D9 API, e.g. via Wine.

### debug
If the `llvm` flag is enabled, ensure that [sys-devel/llvm](../sys-devel/llvm.md) is built with the `debug` flag too (warning will be issued if it is not). Pass the `--buildtype debug` (`plain` if disabled) and `-Db_ndebug=false` (`true` when disabled) options to the meson command. Enable assertions in the meson scripts. Use debug compiler flags (usually `-g` option), disable optimizations (usually `-O0` option) and define the special debugging macro `-DDEBUG`. Compile libraries and binaries with debugging symbols. Enable additional runtime assertions and print extra debugging messages during execution.

This flag should only be enabled if there is a need to debug the Mesa libraries/drivers or applications linked against them.

### dri3
Pass the `-Ddri3=true` option to the meson build command. Enable support for the DRI3 (Direct Rendering Infrastructure 3) extension that utilizes the DMA-BUF (Direct Memory Access Buffer Sharing API) feature to pass buffer objects between X Server and DRI client using file descriptors over the old and insecure GEM (Graphics Execution Manager) buffer sharing mechanism.

This flag should be enabled if target systems runs the X Server.

### egl
Pass the `-Degl=true` option to the meson build script. Build and install the `libEGL` library that provides the EGL API entry points and helper functions for use by the drivers. EGL API handles graphics context management, surface/buffer binding, and rendering synchronization and enables high-performance, accelerated, mixed-mode 2D and 3D rendering for the Embedded-System Graphics. This feature is formerly known as Eagle.

This flag should be enabled on embedded systems that support Khronos rendering APIs, such as OpenGL ES or OpenVG.

### gallium
Pass the `-Dgallium-drivers=swrast` option (and others depending on the video cards selection, e.g. `i915`, `vc4`, `r600`, `radeonsi`, etc) to the meson build command. Enable Gallium3D - a new architecture for building 3D graphics drivers that is designed to allow portability to all major operating systems and graphics interfaces. Build Gallium based `swrast_dri.so` library and other supported driver libraries (`*_dri.so`) enabled via the `VIDEO_CARDS` variable and install them into the `/usr/lib/dri` directory.

This flag should only be enabled as a dependency of one or more video card drivers and other Mesa features or if there is an explicit need for the `Gallium3D` backend, e.g. for software rendering using LLVM without hardware acceleration.

### gbm
Append the `drm` value to the `-Dplatforms=` option and pass it together with the `-Dgbm=true` option to the meson build command. Build and install a `libgbm.so` library that provides a graphics buffer manager (aka GBM) - an abstraction of the graphics driver specific buffer management APIs (for instance the various `libdrm_*` libraries), implemented internally by calling into the Mesa GPU drivers.

This flag should only be enabled as a dependency of the graphics driver, or if the target system runs the Wayland display server.

### gles1
Pass the `-Dgles1=true` option to the meson build command. Build and install the `libGLESv1_CM` library that provides support for the OpenGL ES 1.1 API - a royalty-free, cross-platform API for rendering advanced 2D and 3D graphics on embedded and mobile systems - including consoles, phones, appliances and vehicles. OpenGL ES depends on a working EGL implementation.

This flag should be enabled on the embedded systems that support OpenGL ES 1.1 API.

### gles2
Pass the `-Dgles2=true` option to the meson build command. Build and install the `libGLESv2` library that provides support for the OpenGL ES 2.0 API - a royalty-free, cross-platform API for rendering advanced 2D and 3D graphics on embedded and mobile systems - including consoles, phones, appliances and vehicles. OpenGL ES depends on a working EGL implementation.

This flag should be enabled on the embedded systems that support OpenGL ES 2.0 API.

### libglvnd
Pass the `-Dglvnd=true` option to the meson build command. Use the `libgvnd` library - an OpenGL Neutral Dispatch Library led by NVIDIA, to replace the internal Mesa dispatcher implementation.

This flag should be disabled for now as the feature is in an experimental state.

### llvm
This flag only works if the `gallium` flag is enabled. Prepare build environment by detecting a latest installed version of the LLVM package and appending it to the `PATH` variable. Pass the `-Dllvm=true` option to the meson build command. Build and install the Gallium llvmpipe driver - a software rasterizer that uses LLVM to do runtime code generation. Shaders, point/line/triangle rasterization and vertex processing are implemented with LLVM IR which is translated to x86, x86-64, or ppc64le machine code. Also, the driver is multithreaded to take advantage of multiple CPU cores (up to 8 at this time). It's the fastest software rasterizer for Mesa.

This flag should only be enabled as a dependency of a Gallium3D driver or when software rendering without hardware acceleration is necessary.

### lm-sensors
Only works when the `gallium` flag is enabled. Passe the `-Dlmsensors=true` option to the meson build script. Use the `libsensors` library to provide an ability to display temperature, fan speed and other information from the lm_sensors in the Gallium HUD (head-up display).

It is safe to disable the flag.

### opencl
This feature only works with the `r600` and `radeonsi` Gallium3D drivers and requires the `gallium` and the `llvm` flags to be enabled. Pass the `-Dgallium-opencl=icd` (`disabled` if the flag is off) option to the meson build command. Build and install the `libOpenCL.so` library into the `/usr/lib/OpenCL/vendors/mesa` directory to provide support for the OpenCL 1.1 API - the open, royalty-free standard for cross-platform, parallel programming of diverse processors found in personal computers, servers, mobile devices and embedded platforms.

This flag should only be enabled if there is a need to use the OpenCL API and the target system has supported AMD card.

### osmesa
Pass the `-Dosmesa=classic` (or `gallium` if the `gallium` flag is enabled) option to the meson build command. Build and install the `libOSMesa` library - an off-screen interface for rendering into user-allocated memory without any sort of window system or operating system dependencies, meaning the GL_FRONT colorbuffer is actually a buffer in main memory, rather than a window on your display.

It is safe to disable this flag.

### pax_kernel
Pass the `-Dglx-read-only-text=true` option to the meson build command. Disable writable `.text` section on `x86` platform necessary for running mesa under the PaX hardened Kernel. For details see [Gentoo Bug #240956](https://bugs.gentoo.org/240956).

This flag must only be enabled on hardened systems.

### pic
Pass the `-Dasm=false` option to the meson build command. Disable Assembly code that is used for performance optimization on `x86` platform in order to build PIC (position independent code) libraries (however, `-fPIC` compiler flag must be set in order to do so).

This flag should be enabled on hardened systems or if there is an explicit need for the PIC libraries.

### selinux
Pass the `-Dselinux=true` option to the meson build command. Use the `libselinux` library to check if the SELinux restricts executable code in the heap memory and avoids using it for executable section allocation if it is restricted. This is necessary when running under the SELinux-restricted kernel.

This flag should only ever be toggled system-wide, i.e. as part of the SELinux enabled Portage profile.

### test
Pass the `-Dbuild-tests=true` option to the meson build command. Execute the `ninja test` command when the main build is completed to run the test suite provided with the source code. This will extend the build time.

This flag should normally be disabled, as it is mainly used by the Gentoo team, testers and developers.

### unwind
Only works if the `gallium` flag is enabled. Pass the `-Dlibunwind=true` option to the meson build command. Use the `libunwind` library to generate backtraces for debugging messages.

This flag should normally be disabled and is only useful for debugging purposes.

### vaapi
This feature only works with one of the `r600`, `radeonsi` and `nouveau` Gallium3D driver and therefore requires the `gallium` flag to be enabled. Pass the `-Dgallium-va=true` and the `-Dva-libs-path=/usr/lib/va/drivers` options to the meson build command. Enable support for the VA API (Video-Acceleration API) via the `libva` library to gain an access to graphics hardware acceleration capabilities for video processing. Support accelerated encoding and decoding of the MPEG2, VC-1, H.264/AVC, etc. video codecs.

It is recommended to enable this flag if there is a need to deal with encoding and decoding video files using a compatible GPU, e.g. AMD.

### valgrind
Pass the `-Dvalgrind=auto` option to the meson build command. Build mesa with Valgrind support. Enable some sanitization and additional code to suppress false positive reports from Valgrind in various memory management routines and Kernel calls. This has a performance impact.

This flag should only be enabled if there is a need to run Valgrind tool on the application linked against mesa libraries.

### vdpau
This feature only works for one of the `r300`, `r600`, `radeonsi` and `nouveau` Gallium3D driver and therefore requires the `gallium` flag to be enabled. Pass the `-Dgallium-vdpau=true` option to the meson build command. Enable support for VDPAU (Video Decode and Presentation API) via the `libvdpau` library to access video decoding acceleration and presentation hardware present in modern GPUs. Support accelerated encoding and decoding of the MPEG-1, MPEG-2, MPEG-4 part 2, H.264, VC-1 and DivX video codecs.

It is recommended to enable this flag if there is a need to deal with video files encoding and decoding using a compatible GPU, e.g. Nvidia with Nouveau driver.

### vulkan
Pass the `-Dvulkan-drivers=` option with a list of supported drivers enabled via `VIDEO_CARDS` to the build command. Build and install drivers that utilize Vulkan API - a new generation graphics and compute API that provides high-efficiency, cross-platform access to modern GPUs used in a wide variety of devices. Currently only modern AMD and Intel GPUs are supported.

It is highly recommended to enable this flag if the target system has the AMD or Intel GPU.

### vulkan-overlay
Only works when the `vulkan` flag is enabled. Pass the `-Dvulkan-overlay-layer=true` option to the meson build command. Enable the Vulkan Overlay layer to expose various performance metrics, such as FPS counter, pipeline computations, etc, similar to what Gallium3D "HUD" provides.

The flag can be safely disabled.

### wayland
The Wayland server requires the EGL implementation and GBM support to work. Append the `wayland` value to the `-Dplatforms=` option and pass it to the meson build command. Provide an implementation of the EGL API for Wayland clients to draw directly to the framebuffer.

This flag should only be enabled if there is a need to run Wayland server on the target system.

### xa
This feature only works for the `freedreno`, `nouveau` and `vmware` Gallium3D drivers and therefor requires the `gallium` flag to be enabled. Pass the `-Dgallium-xa=true` option to the meson build script. Build and install the XA (X.Org Acceleration) state tracker developed by VMWare. It provides versioning support, surface functionality, and YUV blits for textured X-Video, Solid fills without ROP functionality, Copies with format conversion and reinterpretation but without ROP, Xrender-type compositing for general acceleration. It is primarily designed for use by the `vmwgfx` on VMware-virtualized guest operating systems. The Freedreno driver uses XA for accelerating 2D with open-source, reverse-engineered Qualcomm graphics driver.

This flag should only be enabled if the target system runs inside of VMWare machine or runs on Adreno GPU with Freedreno driver.

### xvmc
The feature only works with the `r600` or `nouveau` Gallium3D driver and requires `gallium` flag to be enabled. Pass the `-Dgallium-xvmc=true` option to the configure script. Enable the XvMC (X-Video Motion Compensation) API support - an X.Org Server extension that allows video programs to offload portions of the video decoding process to the GPU video-hardware. It is old and outdated extension that is currently obsolete by VA-API and VDPAU and is disabled by default in Mesa.

This flag should normally be disabled and VA-API or VDPAU should be used instead. However it can be used for old hardware that has no such capabilities.
