net-misc/curl.md, before:

# net-misc/curl

### adns
Pass the `--enable-ares` option to the configure script. Use a `c-ares` library for asynchronous DNS requests. Note, that a `c-ares` tends to fail in unstable network configurations and sometimes under high load.

This flag can be safely disabled.

### alt-svc
Pass the `--enable-alt-svc` option to the configure script. Enable support for HTTP Alternative Services (aka `Alt-Svc` header) which was added to cURL as a prerequisite for the HTTP/3 protocol support.

This flag should normally be disabled.

### brotli
Pass the `--with-brotli` option to the configure script. Enable support for a `brotli` compression algorithm introduced by Google (provides 14% to 21% better compression than `gzip`) that recently becoming popular.

It is safe to disable this flag, however it can benefit users who have data constraints.

### ftp
Pass the `--enable-ftp` option to the configure script. Enable support for the FTP (File Transfer Protocol) support to upload files to and download them from the FTP server using the `ftp://` and `ftps://` schemas.

It is recommended to keep this flag enabled, as the FTP protocol is quite widespread.

### gnutls
Pass the `--with-gnutls` and `--with-nettle` options to the configure script. Provide an ability to use the GnuTLS (GnuTLS Transport Layer Security Library) library for crypto operations, such as TLS encryption, certificate verification, etc. Multiple crypto backends can be enabled at a time and the default one can be selected using `CURL_SSL` variable.

It is safe to disable this flag if a different backed is preferred.

### gopher
Pass the `--enable-gopher` option to the configure script. Enable support for Gopher - a protocol designed for distributed document search and retrieval using the `gopher://` scheme.

This flag should normally be disabled, as Gopher is ancient and is almost dead today.

### hsts
Pass the `--enable-hsts` option to the configure script. Enable support for HSTS (HTTP Strict Transport Security) standard. cURL will parse `Strict-Transport-Security` header sent by the server and save HSTS information into the cache file that can be specified via the `--hsts` option on the initial request, then cURL can load this same cache and avoid clear text HTTP requests for as long as the server indicated.

It is recommended to diable this flag - it is currently considered to be experimental.

### http2
Pass the `--with-nghttp2` option to the configure script. Modify a pkg-config `libcurl.pc` file to remove `-lnghttp2` option from a `Libs.private` keyword and append a `libnghttp2` value to a `Requires.private` keyword. Provides support for an HTTP/2 protocol using a `nghttp2` library.

This flag should be enabled if there is a need to support HTTP/2 protocol via a `curl` command line tool or a `libcurl` library. It is safe to disable otherwise.

### idn
Pass the `--with-libidn2` option to the configure script. Enable support for an IDN (internationalized domain names). Provide an ability to use domain names that contain characters from language-specific scripts or alphabet.

This flag can be safely disabled if there is no need to deal with non-English characters in domain names or if a Punycode is used to access such domains.

### imap
Pass the `--enable-imap` option to the configure script. Enable support to query and retrieve email messages from a mail server using the IMAP (Internet Message Access Protocol) protocol using the `imap://` schema.

It is safe to disable this flag.

### ipv6
Pass the `--enable-ipv6` option to the configure script. Enable support for an IPv6 protocol.

This flag should be enabled if the target system participates in IPv6 capable networks. It can be safely disabled otherwise.

### kerberos
Pass the `--with-gssapi=/usr` option to the configure script. Provide support for a Kerberos authentication protocol using a GSS-API for an HTTP and to some extent for an FTP protocols.

This flag should only be enabled if there is a need to use Kerberos authentication protocol. It can safely be disable otherwise.

### ldap
Pass the `--enable-ldap` and the `--enable-ldaps` options to the configure script. Provide an ability to query LDAP servers (e.g. Active Directory) via a `ldap://` or a `ldaps://` shemes.

This flag should normally be disabled unless there is a need to access LDAP servers using cURL.

### mbedtls
Pass the `--with-ssl` option to the configure script. Provide an ability to use the Mbed TLS library for crypto operations, such as TLS encryption, certificate verification, etc. Multiple crypto backends can be enabled at a time and the default one can be selected using `CURL_SSL` variable.

This flag should normally be disabled, unless strictly required, e.g. when building for an embedded system.

### nghttp3
Pass the `--with-nghttp3` and `--with-ngtcp2` options to the configure script. Enable support for the QUIC protocol using the `ngtcp2` library to implement the HTTP/3 protocol on top of it using the `nghttp3` library and enable the `--http3` runtime option to access this feature.

This flag should normally be disabled, because HTTP/3 support is considered experimental at this stage.

### nss
Pass the `--with-nss` and `--with-nss-deprecated` options to the configure script. Provide an ability to use the NSS (Mozilla Network Security Services) library for crypto operations, such as TLS encryption, certificate verification, etc. Multiple crypto backends can be enabled at a time and the default one can be selected using `CURL_SSL` variable.

It is safe to disable this flag if a different backed is preferred.

### openssl
Pass the `--with-ssl` option to the configure script. Provide an ability to use the OpenSSL (cryptography and SSL/TLS toolkit) library for crypto operations, such as TLS encryption, certificate verification, etc. Multiple crypto backends can be enabled at a time and the default one can be selected using `CURL_SSL` variable.

It is safe to disable this flag if a different backed is preferred.

### pop3
Pass the `--enable-pop3` option to the configure script. Enable support for the POP3 (Post Office Protocol 3) protocol and provide an ability to list, download or delete email messages using the `pop3://` scheme.

The flag can be safely disabled.

### progress-meter
Pass the `--enable-progress-meter` option to the configure script. Enable progress meter that shows how transfer (either upload or download) is progressing, including the current transfer speed, elapsed time and estimated time to completion.

It is safe to disable the flag if there is no need to monitor transfer progress with cURL.

### quiche
Pass the `--with-quiche` option to the configure script. Use the `quiche` library to enable support for the HTTP/3 protocol on top of the QUIC protocol and enable the `--http3` runtime option to access this feature.

This flag should normally be disabled, because HTTP/3 support is considered experimental at this stage.

### rtmp
Pass the `--with-librtmp` option to the configure script. Provide support for an RTMP protocol using an `rtmp://` scheme and allow to download stream media.

This flag can be safely disabled as it is only necessary for downloading stream video/audio using RTMP protocol.

### samba
Pass the `--enable-smb` option to the configure script. Enable support for an SMB protocol. Provide an `smb://` scheme support to download files from Windows shares or Samba servers.

It is safe to disable this flag as it is only necessary when using cURL for downloading files from SMB protocol.

### smtp
Pass the `--enable-smtp` option to the configure script. Provide an ability to send emails using the SMTP (Simple Mail Transfer Protocol) server using the `smtp://` scheme, including over the encrypted SSL or TLS connections.

The flag can be safely disabled.

### ssh
Pass the `--with-libssh2` option to the configure script. Provide support for SCP and SFTP protocols using a `libssh2` library. Enable an `scp://` and an `sftp://` shemes to download files from an SSH server.

This flag should normally be disabled unless there is a need to use a curl command line tool or a library to download files from SSH servers.

### ssl
This flag does nothing on its own. It enforces one of the ssl backends to be enabled via `CURL_SSL` use flags.

It is recommended to enable this flag as it provides vital features, e.g. HTTPS protocol support.

### sslv3
Only makes sense if the `ssl` flag is enabled and the `CURL_SSL` use flag has `openssl` backend enabled. Ensure that the `sslv3` flag is enabled on the [dev-libs/openssl](../dev-libs/openssl.md) package to provide support for (now deprecated and insecure) SSLv3 (Secure Socket Layers version 3) cryptographic protocol.

This flag should only ever be enabled if there is an explicit need to use outdated SSLv3 protocol, as it is insecure and vulnerable.

### static-libs
Pass the `--enable-static` option to the configure script. Build and install a statically linked `libcurl` library.

This flag should normally be disabled unless there is an explicit need for static library, e.g. for development purposes.

### telnet
Pass the `--enable-telnet` option to the configure script. Enable support for telnet application protocol using the `telnet://` scheme.

It is safe to disable the flag.

### test
Execute a test suite provided with a source code by running `make check` command after build is complete. This will extend a build time.

It is recommended to keep this flag disabled as it is only required by the Gentoo team, developers and testers.

### tftp
Pass the `--enable-tftp` option to the configure script. Enable support for the TFTP (Trivial File Transfer Protocol) protocol to allow upload files to and download them from the TFTP server, using the `tftp://` scheme.

The flag can be safely disabled.

### verify-sig
Perform signature verification of the upstream source code archive before extracting it and building the package.

It is safe to disable this flag.

### websockets
Pass the `--enable-websockets` option to the configure script. Enable support for WebSocket communication (`ws://` and `wss://` protocols). Currently WebSockets are only supported by the library, command line support is not available yet.

It is safe to disable this flag.

### zstd
Pass the `--with-zstd` option to the configure script. Enable support for ZSTD compressed content data sent over the HTTP, so that cURL can automatically decompress such data on the fly.

It is safe to disable this flag.

Commit message:

net-misc/curl ~gnutls ~mbedtls ~nss ~openssl +rustls

net-misc/curl.md, after:

# net-misc/curl

### adns
Pass the `--enable-ares` option to the configure script. Use a `c-ares` library for asynchronous DNS requests. Note, that a `c-ares` tends to fail in unstable network configurations and sometimes under high load.

This flag can be safely disabled.

### alt-svc
Pass the `--enable-alt-svc` option to the configure script. Enable support for HTTP Alternative Services (aka `Alt-Svc` header) which was added to cURL as a prerequisite for the HTTP/3 protocol support.

This flag should normally be disabled.

### brotli
Pass the `--with-brotli` option to the configure script. Enable support for a `brotli` compression algorithm introduced by Google (provides 14% to 21% better compression than `gzip`) that recently becoming popular.

It is safe to disable this flag, however it can benefit users who have data constraints.

### ftp
Pass the `--enable-ftp` option to the configure script. Enable support for the FTP (File Transfer Protocol) support to upload files to and download them from the FTP server using the `ftp://` and `ftps://` schemas.

It is recommended to keep this flag enabled, as the FTP protocol is quite widespread.

### gnutls
Only works if the `ssl` flag is enabled. Pass the `--with-gnutls` option to the configure script. Provide an ability to use the GnuTLS (GnuTLS Transport Layer Security Library) library for crypto operations, such as TLS encryption, certificate verification, etc. Multiple crypto backends can be enabled at a time and the default one can be selected using `CURL_SSL` variable.

It is safe to disable this flag if a different backed is preferred.

### gopher
Pass the `--enable-gopher` option to the configure script. Enable support for Gopher - a protocol designed for distributed document search and retrieval using the `gopher://` scheme.

This flag should normally be disabled, as Gopher is ancient and is almost dead today.

### hsts
Pass the `--enable-hsts` option to the configure script. Enable support for HSTS (HTTP Strict Transport Security) standard. cURL will parse `Strict-Transport-Security` header sent by the server and save HSTS information into the cache file that can be specified via the `--hsts` option on the initial request, then cURL can load this same cache and avoid clear text HTTP requests for as long as the server indicated.

It is recommended to diable this flag - it is currently considered to be experimental.

### http2
Pass the `--with-nghttp2` option to the configure script. Modify a pkg-config `libcurl.pc` file to remove `-lnghttp2` option from a `Libs.private` keyword and append a `libnghttp2` value to a `Requires.private` keyword. Provides support for an HTTP/2 protocol using a `nghttp2` library.

This flag should be enabled if there is a need to support HTTP/2 protocol via a `curl` command line tool or a `libcurl` library. It is safe to disable otherwise.

### idn
Pass the `--with-libidn2` option to the configure script. Enable support for an IDN (internationalized domain names). Provide an ability to use domain names that contain characters from language-specific scripts or alphabet.

This flag can be safely disabled if there is no need to deal with non-English characters in domain names or if a Punycode is used to access such domains.

### imap
Pass the `--enable-imap` option to the configure script. Enable support to query and retrieve email messages from a mail server using the IMAP (Internet Message Access Protocol) protocol using the `imap://` schema.

It is safe to disable this flag.

### ipv6
Pass the `--enable-ipv6` option to the configure script. Enable support for an IPv6 protocol.

This flag should be enabled if the target system participates in IPv6 capable networks. It can be safely disabled otherwise.

### kerberos
Pass the `--with-gssapi=/usr` option to the configure script. Provide support for a Kerberos authentication protocol using a GSS-API for an HTTP and to some extent for an FTP protocols.

This flag should only be enabled if there is a need to use Kerberos authentication protocol. It can safely be disable otherwise.

### ldap
Pass the `--enable-ldap` and the `--enable-ldaps` options to the configure script. Provide an ability to query LDAP servers (e.g. Active Directory) via a `ldap://` or a `ldaps://` shemes.

This flag should normally be disabled unless there is a need to access LDAP servers using cURL.

### mbedtls
Only works if the `ssl` flag is enabled. Pass the `--with-mbedtls` options to the configure script. Provide an ability to use the Mbed TLS library for crypto operations, such as TLS encryption, certificate verification, etc. Multiple crypto backends can be enabled at a time and the default one can be selected using `CURL_SSL` variable.

This flag should normally be disabled, unless strictly required, e.g. when building for an embedded system.

### nghttp3
Pass the `--with-nghttp3` and `--with-ngtcp2` options to the configure script. Enable support for the QUIC protocol using the `ngtcp2` library to implement the HTTP/3 protocol on top of it using the `nghttp3` library and enable the `--http3` runtime option to access this feature.

This flag should normally be disabled, because HTTP/3 support is considered experimental at this stage.

### nss
Only works if the `ssl` flag is enabled. Pass the `--with-nss` and `--with-nss-deprecated` options to the configure script. Provide an ability to use the NSS (Mozilla Network Security Services) library for crypto operations, such as TLS encryption, certificate verification, etc. Multiple crypto backends can be enabled at a time and the default one can be selected using `CURL_SSL` variable.

It is safe to disable this flag if a different backed is preferred.

### openssl
Only works if the `ssl` flag is enabled. Pass the `--with-ssl` option to the configure script. Provide an ability to use the OpenSSL (cryptography and SSL/TLS toolkit) library for crypto operations, such as TLS encryption, certificate verification, etc. Multiple crypto backends can be enabled at a time and the default one can be selected using `CURL_SSL` variable.

It is safe to disable this flag if a different backed is preferred.

### pop3
Pass the `--enable-pop3` option to the configure script. Enable support for the POP3 (Post Office Protocol 3) protocol and provide an ability to list, download or delete email messages using the `pop3://` scheme.

The flag can be safely disabled.

### progress-meter
Pass the `--enable-progress-meter` option to the configure script. Enable progress meter that shows how transfer (either upload or download) is progressing, including the current transfer speed, elapsed time and estimated time to completion.

It is safe to disable the flag if there is no need to monitor transfer progress with cURL.

### quiche
Pass the `--with-quiche` option to the configure script. Use the `quiche` library to enable support for the HTTP/3 protocol on top of the QUIC protocol and enable the `--http3` runtime option to access this feature.

This flag should normally be disabled, because HTTP/3 support is considered experimental at this stage.

### rtmp
Pass the `--with-librtmp` option to the configure script. Provide support for an RTMP protocol using an `rtmp://` scheme and allow to download stream media.

This flag can be safely disabled as it is only necessary for downloading stream video/audio using RTMP protocol.

### rustls
Only works if the `ssl` flag is enabled. Pass the `--with-rustls` option to the configure script. Provide an ability to use the Rustls library for crypto operations, such as TLS encryption, certificate verification, etc. Multiple crypto backends can be enabled at a time and the default one can be selected using `CURL_SSL` variable.

It is safe to disable this flag if a different backed is preferred.

### samba
Pass the `--enable-smb` option to the configure script. Enable support for an SMB protocol. Provide an `smb://` scheme support to download files from Windows shares or Samba servers.

It is safe to disable this flag as it is only necessary when using cURL for downloading files from SMB protocol.

### smtp
Pass the `--enable-smtp` option to the configure script. Provide an ability to send emails using the SMTP (Simple Mail Transfer Protocol) server using the `smtp://` scheme, including over the encrypted SSL or TLS connections.

The flag can be safely disabled.

### ssh
Pass the `--with-libssh2` option to the configure script. Provide support for SCP and SFTP protocols using a `libssh2` library. Enable an `scp://` and an `sftp://` shemes to download files from an SSH server.

This flag should normally be disabled unless there is a need to use a curl command line tool or a library to download files from SSH servers.

### ssl
This flag does nothing on its own. It enforces one of the ssl backends to be enabled via `CURL_SSL` use flags.

It is recommended to enable this flag as it provides vital features, e.g. HTTPS protocol support.

### sslv3
Only makes sense if the `ssl` flag is enabled and the `CURL_SSL` use flag has `openssl` backend enabled. Ensure that the `sslv3` flag is enabled on the [dev-libs/openssl](../dev-libs/openssl.md) package to provide support for (now deprecated and insecure) SSLv3 (Secure Socket Layers version 3) cryptographic protocol.

This flag should only ever be enabled if there is an explicit need to use outdated SSLv3 protocol, as it is insecure and vulnerable.

### static-libs
Pass the `--enable-static` option to the configure script. Build and install a statically linked `libcurl` library.

This flag should normally be disabled unless there is an explicit need for static library, e.g. for development purposes.

### telnet
Pass the `--enable-telnet` option to the configure script. Enable support for telnet application protocol using the `telnet://` scheme.

It is safe to disable the flag.

### test
Execute a test suite provided with a source code by running `make check` command after build is complete. This will extend a build time.

It is recommended to keep this flag disabled as it is only required by the Gentoo team, developers and testers.

### tftp
Pass the `--enable-tftp` option to the configure script. Enable support for the TFTP (Trivial File Transfer Protocol) protocol to allow upload files to and download them from the TFTP server, using the `tftp://` scheme.

The flag can be safely disabled.

### verify-sig
Perform signature verification of the upstream source code archive before extracting it and building the package.

It is safe to disable this flag.

### websockets
Pass the `--enable-websockets` option to the configure script. Enable support for WebSocket communication (`ws://` and `wss://` protocols). Currently WebSockets are only supported by the library, command line support is not available yet.

It is safe to disable this flag.

### zstd
Pass the `--with-zstd` option to the configure script. Enable support for ZSTD compressed content data sent over the HTTP, so that cURL can automatically decompress such data on the fly.

It is safe to disable this flag.
