sys-apps/kmod.md, before:

# sys-apps/kmod

### debug
Pass the `--enable-debug` option to the configure script. Print an additional debugging information at runtime, e.g. a source file, a line number, a function name, etc.

This flag should be disabled as it is only required for debugging purposes.

### doc
Run a `gtkdocize` on `libkmod/docs` directory of the source tree. Pass the `--enable-gtk-doc` option to the configure script. Generate and install `libkmod` API documentation.

It is safe to disable this flag because it is only needed by developers who uses a `libkmod` library.

### lzma
Pass the `--with-xz` option to the configure script. Provide support for modules compressed using `LZMA`/`LZMA2` compression formats via xz utils.

This flag can be safely disabled unless kernel modules are compressed in `LZMA` or `LZMA2` format.

### python
Run the configure script with the `--enable-python` option passed and execute `make` afterwards for every enabled python target. Provide a `kmod` Python module.

It is safe to disable this flag unless there is a need to run Python scripts that use a `kmod` module.

### static-libs
Pass the `--enable-static` option to the configure script. Build and install statically linked version of a `libkmod` library.

The flag should be disabled unless there is an explicit need for static library.

### tools
Pass the `--enable-tools` option to the configure script. Create appropriate symlinks for a `depmod`, an `insmod`, a `lsmod`, a `modinfo`, a `modprobe` and a `rmmod` tools pointing to the `kmod` binary.

This flag should normally be enabled as these tools are useful for management of Kernel modules.

### zlib
Pass the `--with-zlib` option to the configure script. Enable support for Gzip compressed modules.

This flag should be enabled if Kernel modules of the target system are compressed using gzip.

Commit message:

sys-apps/kmod +libressl +ssl

sys-apps/kmod.md, after:

# sys-apps/kmod

### debug
Pass the `--enable-debug` option to the configure script. Print an additional debugging information at runtime, e.g. a source file, a line number, a function name, etc.

This flag should be disabled as it is only required for debugging purposes.

### doc
Run a `gtkdocize` on `libkmod/docs` directory of the source tree. Pass the `--enable-gtk-doc` option to the configure script. Generate and install `libkmod` API documentation.

It is safe to disable this flag because it is only needed by developers who uses a `libkmod` library.

### libressl
Only works if the `ssl` flag is enabled. Use the LibreSSL library instead of the OpenSSL to obtain module signature information.

This flag should normally be disabled and should only ever be toggled system-wide.

### lzma
Pass the `--with-xz` option to the configure script. Provide support for modules compressed using `LZMA`/`LZMA2` compression formats via xz utils.

This flag can be safely disabled unless kernel modules are compressed in `LZMA` or `LZMA2` format.

### python
Run the configure script with the `--enable-python` option passed and execute `make` afterwards for every enabled python target. Provide a `kmod` Python module.

It is safe to disable this flag unless there is a need to run Python scripts that use a `kmod` module.

### ssl
Pass the `--with-openssl` option to the configure script. Use the OpenSSL library to display module signature information, such as key fingerprint, hashing algorithm and so forth. If the flag is disabled, hashing algorithm always will be "unknown".

This flag can be safely disabled, unless there is a need to deal with signed kernel modules.

### static-libs
Pass the `--enable-static` option to the configure script. Build and install statically linked version of a `libkmod` library.

The flag should be disabled unless there is an explicit need for static library.

### tools
Pass the `--enable-tools` option to the configure script. Create appropriate symlinks for a `depmod`, an `insmod`, a `lsmod`, a `modinfo`, a `modprobe` and a `rmmod` tools pointing to the `kmod` binary.

This flag should normally be enabled as these tools are useful for management of Kernel modules.

### zlib
Pass the `--with-zlib` option to the configure script. Enable support for Gzip compressed modules.

This flag should be enabled if Kernel modules of the target system are compressed using gzip.
