sys-auth/pambase.md, before:

# sys-auth/pambase

### consolekit
Pass the `CONSOLEKIT=yes` variable to the make command. Add a `pam_ck_connector` module
as an `optional` into a `session` interface for `system-login` stack.

This flag should be enabled for multi-user setup with session management done by ConsoleKit. It is safe to disable otherwise.

### cracklib
Pass the `CRACKLIB=yes` variable to the make command. Add a `pam_cracklib` module as a `required` into a `password` interface for `system-auth` stack.

This flag should be enabled if there is a need to validate a password complexity and perform a dictionary check using CrackLib. It is safe to disable otherwise.

### debug
Pass the `DEBUG=yes` variable to the make command. Append `debug` argument to various PAM modules (e.g. `pam_access`, `pam_env`, `pam_unix`, etc) that support it allowing them to display debugging information as they are processed.

This flag is useful for debugging issues with PAM. It should normally be disabled.

### elogind
Pass the `ELOGIND=yes` variable to the make command. Add a `pam_elogind` module as an `optional` into a `session` interface for `system-auth` stack.

This flag should be enabled if there is a need for a SystemD logind manager without a SystemD itself, e.g. for running GNOME with OpenRC. It should be disabled in all other cases.

### gnome-keyring
Pass the `GNOME_KEYRING=yes` variable to the make command. Add a `pam_gnome_keyring` module as an `optional` into an `auth`, a `password` and a `session` interfaces for a `system-login` stack.

This flag should be enabled if there is a desire to use a GNOME Keyring and automatically unlock it at log-in. Otherwise this flag can be safely disabled.

### minimal
Pass the `MINIMAL=yes` variable to the make command. Disable non-essential PAM modules: `pam_motd`, `pam_mail`, `pam_lastlog`, `pam_tally` (or `pam_tally2`) from the `system-login` stack.

It is safe to enable this flag and skip aforementioned modules, but some of them add nice additional security measures, mainly `pam_tally` to count failed logins and deny further attempts and `pam_lastlog` to display last successful login info.

### mktemp
Pass the `MKTEMP=yes` variable to the make command. Add a `pam_mktemp` module as an `optional` to a `session` interface of a `system-auth` and a `system-services` stacks.

This flag can be safely disabled, however it is a nice additional security feature that provides every user with their own, private `/tmp` space.

### nullok
Pass the `NULLOK=yes` variable to the make command. Append a `nullok` argument to a `pam_unix` module for an `auth` and a `password` interfaces of a `system-auth` stack.

This flag should be enabled if there is a need for auto-login functionality, e.g. with a display manager. Otherwise it is recommended to disable this flag to improve security.

### pam_krb5
Pass the `KRB5=yes` variable to the make command. Add a `pam_krb5` module to an `auth`, an `account`, a `password` and a `session` interfaces of the `system-auth` stack and to a `session` interface of the `system-session` stack using an extended Linux-PAM syntax so that Kerberos authentication is performed first falling back to local `pam_unix` if failed.

This flag should only be enabled if there is a need to use Kerberos user authentication. It should be disabled otherwise.

### pam_ssh
Pass the `PAM_SSH=yes` variable to the make command. Add a `pam_ssh` module to an `auth` interface as a `sufficient` and `session` interface as an `optional` for the `system-auth` stack.

This flag is necessary if there is a need to verify user identity by asking for an SSH passphrase for one of the user's private keys. This flag should normally be disabled.

### passwdqc
Pass the `PASSWDQC=yes` variable to the make command. Add a `pam_passwdqc` module as a `required` component of a `password` interface for the `system-auth` stack.

This flag should be enabled if there is a desire to use a `libpasswdqc` library. Otherwise it should be disabled.

### securetty
Pass the `SECURETTY=yes` variable to the make command. Add a `pam_securetty` module as a `required` component of an `auth` interface for the `login` stack.

This flag should be enabled if it is necessary to restrict root login to certain terminals. It should be disabled otherwise.

### selinux
Pass the `SELINUX=yes` variable to the make command. Add a `pam_selinux` module as a `required` component of a `session` interface with different arguments for the `system-login` stack.

This flag should only ever be toggled system-wide, e.g. as part of a SELinux enabled Portage profile as it has a lot of implications.

### sha512
Pass the `SHA512=yes` variable to the make command. Replace a `md5` option with a `sha512` option for a `pam_unix` module that is used in `password` interface of a `system-auth` stack.

It is recommended to enable this flag to improve hashing algorithm.

### systemd
Pass the `SYSTEMD=yes` variable to the make command. Add a `pam_systemd` module as an `optional` component of a `session` interface of a system-auth stack.

This flag should be toggled system-wide, e.g. as part of a SystemD-enabled Portage profile.

Commit message:

sys-auth/pambase +caps ~consolekit

sys-auth/pambase.md, after:

# sys-auth/pambase

### caps
Pass the `LIBCAP=yes` variable to the make command. Add the `pam_cap` module as an `optional` component into the `auth` interface for `system-auth` stack.

This flag can be safely disabled, unless there is a need to set the inheritable capabilities for users based on the `/etc/security/capability.conf` configuration file.

### consolekit
Pass the `CONSOLEKIT=yes` variable to the make command. Add a `pam_ck_connector` module as an `optional` into a `session` interface for `system-login` stack.

This flag should be enabled for multi-user setup with session management done by ConsoleKit. It is safe to disable otherwise.

### cracklib
Pass the `CRACKLIB=yes` variable to the make command. Add a `pam_cracklib` module as a `required` into a `password` interface for `system-auth` stack.

This flag should be enabled if there is a need to validate a password complexity and perform a dictionary check using CrackLib. It is safe to disable otherwise.

### debug
Pass the `DEBUG=yes` variable to the make command. Append `debug` argument to various PAM modules (e.g. `pam_access`, `pam_env`, `pam_unix`, etc) that support it allowing them to display debugging information as they are processed.

This flag is useful for debugging issues with PAM. It should normally be disabled.

### elogind
Pass the `ELOGIND=yes` variable to the make command. Add a `pam_elogind` module as an `optional` into a `session` interface for `system-auth` stack.

This flag should be enabled if there is a need for a SystemD logind manager without a SystemD itself, e.g. for running GNOME with OpenRC. It should be disabled in all other cases.

### gnome-keyring
Pass the `GNOME_KEYRING=yes` variable to the make command. Add a `pam_gnome_keyring` module as an `optional` into an `auth`, a `password` and a `session` interfaces for a `system-login` stack.

This flag should be enabled if there is a desire to use a GNOME Keyring and automatically unlock it at log-in. Otherwise this flag can be safely disabled.

### minimal
Pass the `MINIMAL=yes` variable to the make command. Disable non-essential PAM modules: `pam_motd`, `pam_mail`, `pam_lastlog`, `pam_tally` (or `pam_tally2`) from the `system-login` stack.

It is safe to enable this flag and skip aforementioned modules, but some of them add nice additional security measures, mainly `pam_tally` to count failed logins and deny further attempts and `pam_lastlog` to display last successful login info.

### mktemp
Pass the `MKTEMP=yes` variable to the make command. Add a `pam_mktemp` module as an `optional` to a `session` interface of a `system-auth` and a `system-services` stacks.

This flag can be safely disabled, however it is a nice additional security feature that provides every user with their own, private `/tmp` space.

### nullok
Pass the `NULLOK=yes` variable to the make command. Append a `nullok` argument to a `pam_unix` module for an `auth` and a `password` interfaces of a `system-auth` stack.

This flag should be enabled if there is a need for auto-login functionality, e.g. with a display manager. Otherwise it is recommended to disable this flag to improve security.

### pam_krb5
Pass the `KRB5=yes` variable to the make command. Add a `pam_krb5` module to an `auth`, an `account`, a `password` and a `session` interfaces of the `system-auth` stack and to a `session` interface of the `system-session` stack using an extended Linux-PAM syntax so that Kerberos authentication is performed first falling back to local `pam_unix` if failed.

This flag should only be enabled if there is a need to use Kerberos user authentication. It should be disabled otherwise.

### pam_ssh
Pass the `PAM_SSH=yes` variable to the make command. Add a `pam_ssh` module to an `auth` interface as a `sufficient` and `session` interface as an `optional` for the `system-auth` stack.

This flag is necessary if there is a need to verify user identity by asking for an SSH passphrase for one of the user's private keys. This flag should normally be disabled.

### passwdqc
Pass the `PASSWDQC=yes` variable to the make command. Add a `pam_passwdqc` module as a `required` component of a `password` interface for the `system-auth` stack.

This flag should be enabled if there is a desire to use a `libpasswdqc` library. Otherwise it should be disabled.

### securetty
Pass the `SECURETTY=yes` variable to the make command. Add a `pam_securetty` module as a `required` component of an `auth` interface for the `login` stack.

This flag should be enabled if it is necessary to restrict root login to certain terminals. It should be disabled otherwise.

### selinux
Pass the `SELINUX=yes` variable to the make command. Add a `pam_selinux` module as a `required` component of a `session` interface with different arguments for the `system-login` stack.

This flag should only ever be toggled system-wide, e.g. as part of a SELinux enabled Portage profile as it has a lot of implications.

### sha512
Pass the `SHA512=yes` variable to the make command. Replace a `md5` option with a `sha512` option for a `pam_unix` module that is used in `password` interface of a `system-auth` stack.

It is recommended to enable this flag to improve hashing algorithm.

### systemd
Pass the `SYSTEMD=yes` variable to the make command. Add a `pam_systemd` module as an `optional` component of a `session` interface of a system-auth stack.

This flag should be toggled system-wide, e.g. as part of a SystemD-enabled Portage profile.
